---
layout: post
author: danielbachhuber
title: Version 0.19.0 released
---

Enhancements:

* `wp option list` permits listing all options, or searching based on a pattern. Use `--format=total_bytes` to get the total bytes for the matching options.
* Use `--all-tables` flag for `wp search-replace` to perform replacements against all tables in the database. In 0.17.0, we changed the behavior of `wp search-replace` to only affect tables registered to `$wpdb`. This new flag permits users to opt-in to all tables.
* When scaffolding a plugin, we've made a few improvements: `install-wp-tests.sh` will use either cURL or wget; added `--activate-network` flag; use `--dir` to scaffold to an arbitrary directory (e.g. mu-plugins or a theme folder); creates default Gruntfile with two helpful tasks, `readme` and `i18n`; increased max tested PHP version to 5.5.
* When scaffolding a child theme, the parent theme's stylesheet is properly enqueued, instead of being loaded via `@import`.
* Added `wp core language update` to update language files.
* Introduced `\WP_CLI\Utils\get_flag_value()` helper function.
* Added a `--dashicon` argument to `wp scaffold post-type` which will specify the icon for the post type.
* Added a `--sassify` argument to `wp scaffold _s` to download the SASS version of `_s`.
* MySQL binary commands execute with `--no-auto-rehash` for a substantial performance boost on larger databases.
* On export, taxonomy terms missing parents are explicitly identified to make them easier to fix.
* When updating an option or post/user/comment meta and the supplied option is the same as the stored option, the success message indicates as such.
* Added `--format=ids` to `wp post term list`.
* Added `--skip-delete` flag to `wp media regenerate`. This is helpful on sites where thumbnails might've been linked to within post content. Skipping deletion prevents broken images.
* Added `after_invoke` hook for any post-command execution tasks.
* Supports filtering by site value in `wp site list`.
* Added archive/unarchive, activate/deactivate and spam/not-spam subcommands to `wp site`.
* Added a summary table to output of `wp theme update` and `wp plugin update`. This makes it easier to parse the final results when you're updating a number of themes or plugins in one go.
* On multisite, user creation is run through `wpmu_validate_user_signup()` and `wpmu_create_user()`, which perform different validation rules.
* Object cache is periodically cleared on import to prevent excess memory usage.
* Nightly builds are accompanied by checksums.
* WP-CLI now provides checksums for nightly builds.

Bug fixes:

* Provides a human-friendly error when an invalid class is specified for a command. The prior behavior was to fatal error.
* Correctly sets `sslverify` argument when testing WP-Cron.
* Importer throws a hard error if importing a file returns `WP_Error`. `create_author_mapping_file()` uses `WP_Error` to report that an author mapping file needs to be updated. However, when importing a directory of WXR files, only using `WP_CLI::warning()` means the second file will use the author mapping file of the first, which should've been edited.
* Comment meta values are wrapped in CDATA tags on export.
* `wp core multisite-install` and `wp core multisite-convert` will properly include `define( 'WP_ALLOW_MULTISITE', true );` constant.
* Honors https scheme on `--url` argument.
* `wp post term list` displays error for an invalid taxonomy.
* `WP_CLI::error()` respects `$exit` argument.
* Provides a human-friendly error when an incorrect version or locale was supplied for `wp core download` The prior behavior was to fatal error.
* `wp cron event schedule` respects the `<next-run>` argument.
* Doesn't permit child themes to be activated without their parent installed.
* Themes are network enabled based on stylesheet value, not template. Previously, it wasn't possible to network-enable a child theme because of this bug.


You can browse the full list of [resolved issues](https://github.com/wp-cli/wp-cli/issues?q=milestone%3A0.19.0+is%3Aclosed) on Github.
